What's up, everybody?
So this section is all about your resume and interviewing
as a product manager, and this lecture is about
your resume and how we're going to optimize it to have
a better chance at getting a product management
job. So, resumes, in general,
it's true, not as important as they used to be, but you
still have got to have one unfortunately, and you need
to make it the best you can to optimize
your chances for getting a job,
especially in product management, because it's pretty
hard to get a job as one. If you don't have any prior
product management experience,
what's important here is to frame the experience you
do have in a way that relates to getting that PM job.
So we're going to talk about two ways to optimize
your resume here, and they're pretty simple.
All right, step one. If you haven't already,
go back and watch that lecture on preparing for the
PM role with relevant experience, and think through
all of the times you've done something at your current job,
even if you're not a product manager, because it's
probably got some stuff in it that does relate
to product management.
Once you've done that, go through and edit the subtext of each position you've held on your resume and make it reflect that
product management experience that you found
using the exercise we did in that lecture.
So, step two. Make sure that all of the descriptions in
your previous positions, and even the current one,
just make sure your whole resume is like this, quantitative.
All of the examples you give on the things you did,
they need to be quantitative.
What I mean by that is we need to say,
instead of describing what your job was,
we need to say how did you do at your job.
This is because, as we know, product
management is all about improving metrics.
So what we're going to try to do is change, instead of describing
your job, we're going to change it into describing
how you, in quantitative way, improved things for your job.
Here's an example.
If you're a marketer, instead of saying that you managed marketing campaigns, say how many marketing campaigns
you managed, and how much revenue
it generated for the company,
or do something like "I increased the number of simultaneous campaigns managed at once by 20% over the course of the year."
You've just got to make it quantitative.
So what we're going to do now is we're going to
put some fake resumes on the screen.
All right. So this is totally fake.
I made these up, but it's for someone that works in
marketing currently and wants to go into product
management. So you can see the difference
between these two is that we've changed,
first of all, everything to be more quantitative, in terms
of what were the things that we accomplished,
and then we have also put in more experience that's
relevant to product management, the role, rather than,
you know, talking about stuff that's not relevant to
what product managers do on a day to day basis.
So I'll include these in the resources section, along with some other guides on how to improve your resume in general.
But I really want to just tell you about that,
product management is all about those metrics.
So make sure stuff is quantitative, and secondly, product
managers do so much stuff that it's pretty easy
to think of stuff that you did that's related to product management, like prioritization or communicating between departments.
Just make sure that's reflected in your resume, and even
if you don't have prior product experience, it's going
to give you a much better chance at not being passed over by the recruiter for an associate or junior product manager position.
Alright everyone. I will see you in the next lecture.